---
layout: default
title: Steve Ortiz
quote: "Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If
you love what you are doing, you will be successful."
cite: "Albert Schweitzer"
---

<p class="lead" markdown="1">Personally, I love helping people solve challenging
problems in innovative ways.</p>

I have over 17 years of experience helping people solve problems through
software. I enjoy working with teams to figure out the bigger picture and then
coming up with useful technical solutions. I love that there is a new challenge
every day and there is always more to learn. When a new idea strikes early in
the morning, I can hardly wait to get into the office and explore it. By the end
of most days, I return home energized by my teammates and our achievements.

My breadth of experience is now my greatest strength. I started my journey
developing database-intensive business applications and websites. Then I spent a
decade working with real-time, safety-critical software in autonomous trucks,
missiles and planes. Two years ago, I returned to the private sector and to my
roots, developing web applications. During my career, I have worked on
everything from short one-person projects to massive multi-billion dollar
programs. I have worked as an individual software developer, team leader,
systems engineer and subject matter expert responsible for the entire software
development process. I have worked with a vast number of old and new
technologies along the way, each one presenting opportunities to expand my skill
set. Also, I have had the benefit and pleasure of working with and learning from
so many incredibly talented developers, leaders and world-class experts along
the way.

I am currently interested in new opportunities make a meaningful difference in
an expanding business. If you are looking for an experienced software developer
to lead a team or to solve tough problems, please contact me through
[email][email] or [LinkedIn][linkedin]. I would love to talk about
possibilities.

I hope you find this website to be helpful. This page serves as an introduction.
You can discover more about me on the other pages of this website by using the
navigation bar at the top of the page to explore a small selection of sample
work and more details on my work experience. There are also links at the bottom
of the page to my LinkedIn, GitHub and Twitter accounts.

[linkedin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/{{site.linkedin_username}}
[email]:    mailto:{{site.email}}
