---
layout: default
title: Texas A&M University
hero: "My professional software development experience began my sophomore year
at Texas A&M University."
quote: "There&rsquo;s a spirit can ne&rsquo;er be told..."
cite: "The Spirit of Aggieland"
permalink: /experience/tamu/
---

I was a sophomore, studying to become a Mechanical Engineer, and the thought of
developing software professionally had never crossed my mind when I found the
Department of Food Services was looking for a student worker to do data entry. I
could type like the wind, so I got the job. Soon after I started work, I learned
everything I could about FileMaker databases, and my supervisor realized I could
help them more by developing applications than by entering data.

By the Spring of 1999, my junior year, I still planned to become a Mechanical
Engineer, but I was really enjoying my work with databases and I had learned to
do just about anything with FileMaker.  That's when I began to work freelance
for a small dot-com company in Silicon Valley, Quetzal Consulting, also known as
MedicalHost.com.  The work was challenging, the pay was great, and the Dept. of
Food Services was very accommodating with my schedule.  So, I was working two
jobs (~30 hours / week) and going to school full-time.  Somehow, I graduated in
just four years with honors.  Unfortunately, it took me four years to figure out
I should have been studying Computer Science!  It was too late to change majors,
and it didn't seem to matter in the dot-com world.

### Catering Event Scheduler

The Department of Food Services at Texas A&M University has several managing
units that cater University-related events.  This solution allowed multiple
units to independently schedule their events, complete event agreements, search
previous events, and manage upcoming events.  Catering administrators had
privileges to search and modify any catering event within the department.  For
audit purposes, accountability was crucial; thus, the solution kept careful
track of the last user to modify any event, and required Accounting's approval
to officially cancel any orders.  The Accounting Department also used this
solution to generate invoices and manage their client list. I was one of two
developers on this project.

### Employee Relations Manager

The Department of Human Resources chose several departments to participate in a
new management program called the Positive Performance Management System.  This
solution computerized the paper logs, employee tracking, and the rules for
putting an employee on notice.  In minutes, FileMaker generated the reports
required by this management system, saving the personnel department days of
tedious calculations.  Another feature of this program was the online tutorial
to familiarize new users with many of the routine tasks. I was the primary
developer on this project.

### Employee Training Manager

The training department of Food Services created a new system by which to train
employees and help them advance in pay levels.  This database solution tracked
the courses taken and the credits earned by all Food Services employees.  Each
employee could select between four career tracks, each of which had different
requirements to advance in levels.  The training department controlled both the
track requirements and employee attendance/credit through a user-friendly
database interface.  They could also print several types of reports to keep
management and employees informed. I was the primary developer on this project.

### Franchise Sales Tracking

The Department of Food Services sells food through various franchises, all of
which require detailed reporting of sales.  At the end of every month, this
program would generate comprehensive weekly and monthly total sales reports for
each franchise, clearly indicating the monthly franchise fee, based on their
sales. I was one of two developers on this project.

### Menu Tracking

This database solution tracked the menu and the nutritional information for all
the main courses.  Every morning it automatically generated web pages containing
menus for the current day and upcoming week, along with detailed nutritional
information.  It also printed the daily menus for each facility. I was one of
two developers on this project.
